Now I know that this prototype stuff can be very confusing, also because the naming is so similar but
it's really important to understand the difference between the prototype property on constructor functions
where you configure what will be added to objects that are created based on that constructor function
and the __proto property which is available on every object, not just on constructor
functions or function objects which in the end points to the prototype that has been assigned to this
object, so to the fallback object that has been assigned to that object, that is really important to understand
and that's the idea behind prototypes.
Now arguably, using classes and extending makes that a lot easier which is why we have that and why we
use that
but it is super important to understand this behind the scenes stuff because Javascript is based on
it and not only will you find this in many interviews or will you be forced to use this in code because
you can't use classes for whatever reason,
it also helps you understand the code you write and it's such a core concept of Javascript has been
around forever
you got to know. Now there also are some specialties related to that concept
and I mentioned earlier that this constructor function is actually not a perfect replacement for this
class here and thus far, we didn't know how to write it in a better way,
now we do because actually, everything what you have in the constructor except for that super thing which
is especially in classes, everything you have in the constructor of a class can go in a constructor function
and you have exactly the same behavior. Every field which you set up will also be added just as
you would have written it in the constructor, only important thing here is it will automatically be added
after any super call you might have in there because you have to use this and using a field effectively
will create it as ah instance property, will set it up as an instance property using this after calling
super. So fields effectively are translated to properties just as if you would use that in constructor
syntax, here for example with this age, you could do the same for this name, it would have the same behavior
as you have when you add a field. There is a difference between constructor functions and classes though
if we have a look at how methods are added, for example this greet method. Let's see what the difference
could be.
I'll comment out all that code at the bottom, comment out
this constructor function and my prototype editing and comment back in this class here.
Now let's go down to the bottom and again, create a person with new person and console log that person.
If we reload this,
we see this as the object that was created with that prototype which also has the greet method. Wait a
second,
a prototype which has the greet method,
where's that coming from?
Shouldn't the greet method be part of the object itself?
I defined it here in person, AgedPerson should only add the printAge method and nothing else. Well
turns out this isn't a prototype of AgedPerson, not in the prototype of person.
So we have an extra prototype that was added by Javascript when we worked with classes, well that's interesting,
name on the other hand indeed was added as a property to my object that was built based on that class.
So indeed if we add a field like this here, this indeed is added as a property to the object that is
being created,
the only difference to the constructor is that here, when you use a field like this, it's not as obvious
that you call it after super,
here if you would try to switch this, you'll get an error.
Now I will get an error that I must call super first before I try to use this. Hence in the constructor,
we're forced to write code like this.
If in super, so if in the base class you try to do something with name, you would therefore fail, if I had
a constructor here
and I try to console log this.name in the constructor of the base class, you will see that
this prints undefined and if I would try to do something with it like call a method on it, we would
get an error that this method doesn't exist on undefined.
The reason for this is that this here is added as a property in the same place as these properties
are added after the super call finished
and that's an issue we faced in the last course module where we essentially tried to use something in
the base class which was set up as a field here in the subclass and which therefore didn't exist yet.
So that's something to be aware of but generally, what you set up as a field here is translated in such
a property assignment that works in the same way as it would work if you would
add it here in the constructor like this,
so this is basically equivalent
you could say. Now it changes when we have a look at the method though as you can already see.